So we're gonna start here with monoids.
And I'm gonna define what
we call a semi group.
Raise your hand if you've heard
of a semi group or used it.
Okay, we got one.
All right, how about monoids,
people are using, cool.
So, we're gonna start by defining a semi
group and let's look at some examples.
So one plus two, plus three plus six,
doesn't really matter.
What's happening here is it
doesn't matter if I parenthesize
these ones in the right or
the left first, I'll get the same answer.
So again,
associativity keeps coming into play.
So addition is associative,
it also is closed.
So if I add a bunch of integers I can
never break out of integers with addition.
I'll always get integers back, so
it's closed under composition.
I mean this is the composition so
binary operators,
we're gonna compose these numbers.
So now, let's go ahead and say, we’re
gonna take the product of a few numbers.
So how about two and five and eight.
And again, it’s associative right?
It doesn’t matter how I
parenthesize this operation.
And again, it is closed.
Under the data type I'm
getting the product of.
Now, contrast just as a counter example,
if,
let's say I have 10
divided by 4 divided by 2.
This is neither closed nor associative.
So if I do four over two,
I'm gonna get two, right?
And then 10 divided by two is five.
So there's that answer but
if I parenthesized
it this way 10 over 4 is like 2.5.
And that not over two is like, 1.2.
And it's, so we're breaking out
of integers into floats and
we're getting different answers but
depending on how we parenthesize.
Just as FYI, if you're closed and
you're associative, you're parallel.
That's pretty neat.
You can parallelize that,
you can chunk it up into a bunch
of different additions, right?
x plus y plus z.
We can send it to different
servers have them all combined and
then combine the results.
And we can do it in parallel.
That's pretty great.
Spelled associative wrong, but whatever.
Let's look at more examples of this.
Let's say we have a true and
a true and a false.
This is again associative.
We could do ORS, that's associated with
we're just looking at these binary
operators they are associative and
they are closed.
There's something to this, how about
set intersection, we have 1, 2, 3.
And we'll do the meet,
that's not a real operator.
I'm just making that up for this.
We have 2, 5, 6 and do that again,
we could, essentially that's associative,
we'll get the intersection
of all the arrays, right?
So in this case, it'd be two but,
let's go down to this junction or union.
You get the same thing.
You get the union of all them.
This is associative, it's closed.
So try to think of any other examples
of a semigroup, that's that's
what we're getting at is any kind of-
>> What does closed mean again?
>> Close means that we're,
if I'm going to get the intersection or
union of these sets, I'll get a new
set back or array in this case.
Same thing with integers.
I don't change the data type.
When we looked at division,
I know in JavaScript is just number.
But we had integers and we were dividing
integers and boom, you get a float or
you get a real number out of nowhere,
right and so that is not closed.